Hello.
My name is Natalia Gavrielyovna Gorokhova.
I am the Chief Consultant at the auditing consulting firm BDO Unicom.
I am the Chief Specialist of our firm on accounting issues.
Today we will discuss accounting, tax, management accounting,
accounting, that is, financial accounting,
and see what standards it can meet.
The goal and purpose of our course is to show the importance,
importance and interrelationship of all types of accounting in the organization
and to introduce you to the foundations of international standards of financial accounting.
Accounting
We will start with the types of accounting and their interrelationship in the organization.
Accounting is a language of knowledge and rules of their use.
It is created to replace real objects with their symbols.
These symbols allow to describe the economic activity and its results.
The language of signs is a set of conditional designations,
represented primarily by professional terminology and special codes.
The rules of use are the restrictions introduced into the accounting language
and which establish the informational connections between the signs,
providing the necessary communication between the participants of the economic process.
Accounting includes the collection, accumulation and storage of information about the objects of accounting.
There are different types of accounting, as we have already said.
This is the management accounting system,
this is the tax accounting system,
this is the financial accounting system,
and this is the accounting system according to the standards of the Russian Federal Reserve,
according to the standards of the Federal Reserve,
maybe according to the standards of the US GAAP,
and each accounting system gives us its own accountability.
The management accounting system will give the management accountability,
the tax accounting system will give us the tax accountability,
the financial accounting system will give us the financial accountability.
What is the reason for such a variety of accounting?
It is explained by the fact that different tasks are set before the accounting accounting system.
These tasks may be the task of controlling the use of purposeful means,
it may be the requirements of the state statistics,
it may be the requirements that are presented by the market of securities,
it may be macroeconomic regulation,
it may be the resolution of civil and legal disputes,
it may be the division of property during reorganization,
it may be the calculation of taxes and tax administration,
it may be information about the financial situation and the financial results of the organization.
All this variety of accounting is caused by the fact that different users need different information.
All users can be divided into internal users and external users.
When we talk about internal users, we mean that this is about the owners of the enterprise,
this is the members of the board of directors, this is the administration, managers,
this is the line managers.
They need all the information,
both tax information, management information and financial accounting.
External users are divided into users with indirect financial interest
and with direct financial interest.
With indirect financial interest, this is the local administration,
which is interested in whether the enterprise will work tomorrow,
how much labor it can do, what taxes it will pay.
These are tax authorities that may require any information.
But they are primarily interested in the correct calculation and payment of taxes to the budget.
These are statistical authorities that will be interested in purely statistical information.
These are buyers who will be interested in the financial accounting of the organization.
Users with direct financial interest are investors,
investors of today, future investors.
These are creditors, these are suppliers.
They are interested in financial information.
The general information base for the composition of financial, management and tax accounting registers
is the primary accounting document, the accounting book.
In various types of financial, management and tax registers,
this information is grouped according to the tasks of each type of accounting.
The area of cross-referencing of financial, management and tax accounting
is the determination and distribution of expenses,
calculation of the cost of the finished product,
the cost of the unfinished product, and so on.
Financial, management and tax accounting are interconnected subsystems of a single accounting.
The register of financial accounting and, accordingly, financial accounting is created on the basis of the primary accounting document.
The register of management accounting and, accordingly, accounting,
approved by the organization for the generalization of management accounting data,
the register of tax accounting allows us to make tax declarations.
Management accounting is a subsystem of accounting,
which within the framework of one organization provides its apparatus with information
used for planning, management and control of the organization's activities.
This process includes the detection, measurement, collection, analysis, preparation,
interpretation, transfer and reception of information to the necessary management apparatus
for its function.
The organization of management accounting is the internal affair of each enterprise.
The state does not prescribe the common rules for the management accounting.
Management independently determines in which sections to classify the management objects
and how to carry out their accounting.
Management accounting information is intended for the management and managers of the enterprise.
It is a commercial secret and has a strictly confidential nature.
The main objects of management accounting are expenses, costs, costs and revenues of the enterprise,
as well as the results of the enterprise's work as a comparison of the enterprise's income and expenses.
Such accounting objects as the centers of responsibility and the internal accounting system are always allocated.
The methods used in management accounting are very diverse,
as it combines the methods of many disciplines.
This includes both operational accounting, accounting accounting, statistical accounting,
analysis of strategic and operational planning, management of the enterprise's economy, statistics, mathematics.
The growth of the scale of business, changes in technology,
as well as the increase in the educational level of managers over the past decade
have activated the development of management accounting
and led to its wide recognition as a separate area of accounting, different from financial accounting.
The goal of management accounting is to help managers make effective management decisions.
It is realized in its tasks.
This is the formation of reliable and complete information about the internal economic processes and the results of the activity.
The presentation of this information is given by the enterprise's management
by the internal management accounting.
This is planning and control of the enterprise's economic efficiency and its centers of responsibility.
This is the calculation of the actual cost of the product, work and services,
the determination of deviations from management standards, standards, standards,
the analysis of deviations from the planned results,
the determination of the causes of these deviations,
the control over the presence and movement of the property of material, financial, labor resources.
This is the formation of an information base for decision-making.
This is the realization of the reserves of increasing the efficiency of the enterprise's activities.
Management influences are realized by means of the main functions of management,
the interconnection and interaction of which form a closed, repeating, cyclical circle of management.
This is planning, organization, accounting, control, regulation, analysis,
and again planning, organization, accounting, and so on.
Government accounting is a system of accounting, planning, control, analysis of income and expenses
and the results of the organization's activities,
in the necessary analytical sections of the operational acceptance of various management decisions.
A specialist in management accounting for the execution of its functions
must possess all the information, including confidential information.
It must have the right to prepare its own special opinion with analytical, justified statements.
It must have the right to postpone the decision-making in order to professionally prepare it.
Tax accounting is carried out in strict accordance with the Tax Code.
Tax accounting is a system of information generalization for determining the tax base
on the basis of the data of primary documents,
grouped in accordance with the order provided by the Tax Code.
Tax accounting is carried out in order to form complete and reliable information
on the order of accounting for the purpose of taxing economic operations
carried out by taxpayers during the accounting period,
as well as to provide information to internal and external users
for the control of the correctness of the calculation,
completeness and timeliness of the calculation, and payment of taxes to the budget.
Tax accounting does not perform the functions of collecting and registering information on the facts of economic activity.
These operations remain in the accounting knowledge.
Subsequent processing of the collected information in order to calculate the tax base
constitutes the subject of tax accounting.
Tax accounting is based on the system of primary accounting
and on the way of registering the facts of economic activity provided by accounting.
But it can also introduce its own primary documents,
such as invoices.
Tax accounting involves the application of tax registers,
in which information is generalized.
In order to calculate, for example, the added cost of taxes,
two special registers are formed – the purchase book and the sale book.
The forms of these registers are set up by law.
In order to calculate the tax revenue,
the organization develops the system of tax registers and their composition on its own,
based on the principle of consistency of the application of the norms and rules of tax accounting.
That is, the system of registers is applied in a sequence,
from one tax period to another tax period.
The order of tax accounting is established by the tax payer
in the accounting policy for the purposes of tax deductions.
Financial accounting is designed for the characteristics of the financial situation
and the results of financial activity.
The definition of the economic effectiveness of the enterprise's activities
In financial accounting, information is formed about the income and expenses of the organization,
about the libidin and credit debt, about financial investments,
about the state of the financing sources,
about the relationship with the state on the payment of taxes.
The goal of financial accounting is to provide information about the financial situation,
the results of activities and about the changes in the financial situation of the company.
The financial situation of the company gives us a balance of this company.
Information about the results of activities gives us a report on profits and losses.
The financial situation of the company gives us separate reports.
A report on capital changes, a report on the movement of money.
Financial accounting shows the results of the company's management activities,
as well as all the necessary information for decision-making.
To make economic decisions, it is necessary to assess the ability of the enterprise
to generate cash flows, deadlines and the definition of their generation,
information about the results of profitability,
we need to assess the potential changes in the controlled resources,
the forecast of the generated cash flows,
the effectiveness of the use of additional resources.
Consumers, mainly external to the enterprise,
are the tax authorities, banks, exchanges, other financial institutions,
as well as suppliers, buyers, potential and real investors, employees of the enterprise.
Financial accounting must be assured by an independent auditor or audit firm.
Financial accounting is public.
It is intended for publication.
The publicity of individual accounting becomes a kind of advertising of the company's activities.
Companies make colorful booklets,
where they provide their reports,
provide information about the company's activities,
post open information on the Internet,
publish it in special publications.
Financial accounting
All financial information is made up of standards.
Standards can be national or international.
The goal of the standards is to provide users with reliable,
accessible information about the financial situation
and the results of the company's financial activities
that are useful for making economic decisions.
We often come across the English abbreviation GAAP,
especially when it is written as USA.
We think that it refers only to the standards in the United States.
No, GAAP is translated from English as the General Principles of Accounting.
GAAP is a system of rules, requirements,
and practices of financial accounting
that are adopted and applied in a certain jurisdiction.
The designation of a state before the abbreviation
defines this jurisdiction.
The composition and representation of financial accounting
by any country is regulated by a set of standards.
The system of national accounting standards
is developed by special organizations,
based on theoretical research,
and is mandatory for the country's level of performance.
The system of national accounting standards
is regulated by the government's laws,
regulations, and directives.
It defines the methods of accounting
and the evaluation of the production of stocks and other material values.
It regulates the amortization of foreign assets,
regulates accounting forms and indicators,
defines external methods of controlling the company's activities,
contains the national accounting plan,
and provides the user with sufficient information
to make decisions at the micro and macro levels.
The national standards can be
the GAAP of the USA, the GAAP of the UK,
the GAAP of Germany, the GAAP of France,
the GAAP of Russia, the GAAP of any country.
In addition to national standards,
regional standards are developed,
which are mandatory for all members
of the region.
For example, the EU directives
and other regional standards.
If we look at the national standards of certain countries,
we will notice that all countries
can approach the reflection of certain assets,
obligations in different ways.
For example, in Denmark, Spain, Russia, France,
and in a number of other countries,
the main funds are taken into account
according to the initial cost.
In the UK, the main funds are taken into account
according to the initial cost or the market cost.
In Belgium, the main funds are taken into account
The revaluation of the main funds, for example,
is not applied in the USA, Luxembourg, Japan,
and a number of other countries,
but is either done in a series of steps
by the government bodies in Greece, Spain, and Italy,
or is a permanent practice,
as in the UK, Germany, the Netherlands,
Russia, France, and Sweden.
The revaluation can cover various periods.
For example, in the UK, real estate is revalued
no less than once every five years.
In Denmark, every six months,
the conditions and terms of amortization
of non-returnable assets are changed.
That is, the main funds, non-material assets.
For example, the term of amortization
of the business reputation in Belgium is five years.
In the Netherlands, it is ten years.
In Russia and France, it is twenty years.
In the UK, the full calculation of its value
and the funds of the previously listed reserves
is carried out immediately.
As a result, the incompatibility of indicators
of various national systems.
Thus, the income for the share of one Russian enterprise
calculated according to the national accounting standards
of the UK, Germany, and France
was 6, 3, and 4 dollars.
Three systems are highlighted.
This is the Anglo-American financial accounting model.
This is the continental model.
And this is the Latin American model.
The Anglo-American model combines the accounting systems
of the countries that used to be part of the British Commonwealth.
These are Australia, Great Britain, Hong Kong, Israel,
India, Canada, Cyprus, Netherlands, USA, and some other countries.
The continental model combines the national accounting systems
of such countries as Germany, Austria, Belgium, Greece,
Denmark, Spain, France, Switzerland, and Sweden.
The national accounting system in Russia and Japan
is close to this model.
The Latin American model combines the national accounting systems
of the countries of South America in terms of language
and in terms of the common past.
In all the countries that are part of the Anglo-American model,
the USA and Great Britain have a great influence.
The accounting practices of the countries
that are part of the continental model
are significantly different from each other.
A distinctive feature of the accounting system of the countries
that are part of the Latin American model
is the adjustment to inflation.
The Anglo-American model assumes
that the market for securities is well developed in these countries.
This is why there is a high level of professionalism
in the accounting system of both accountants and users.
The accounting system is primarily aimed
at the needs of investors and creditors.
In the countries that use the continental model,
business has a close relationship with banks.
The orientation of financial accounting
to the needs of investors is not a priority here.
In the countries that use the Latin American model,
accounting is generally oriented to the needs
of state and tax authorities.
There is strict control in these countries
over the implementation of tax policy.
The Anglo-American model is particularly important
in calculating the real financial result.
The task of providing information to the state
in the face of tax authorities
is generally carried out within the framework of financial accounting
and financial reporting.
In the continental accounting model,
accounting is regulated by law,
differs in a large degree from conservatism,
and the state's interference in accounting
is usually a requirement for the use of accounts.
Accounting is oriented to the satisfaction
of information needs of tax and other state authorities.
The Latin American model uses accounting methods
that have a high level of unification.
National Standards
As we have seen, national standards are very diverse
and sometimes provide incomparable information.
Such a variety of national standards
has caused a need for the preparation
of international standards on financial accounting
in the same standards.
Here, the object of standardization
is not accounting in general,
but preparation and presentation of financial accounting.
We are talking about external accounting,
general accounting,
accounting used by shareholders,
creditors, clients, workers, and the public.
Special financial accounting,
such as commission and tax accounting,
are not considered international standards.
Today, there is a global accounting system
based on international standards.
Since 1983, the International Standards Committee
of the Financial Accounting has been working in London.
It is an independent body
whose goal is to unify accounting principles
used by companies around the world
for financial accounting.
By the end of the 20th century,
more than 100 countries were represented
in the International Standards Committee.
Today, international standards are used
as a basis for national requirements
for financial accounting in many countries,
as an international standard for those countries
that develop their own requirements for accounting,
including the main developed countries,
the remaining number of new markets,
such as China, Asian countries, Central Europe,
Russia, and the CIS countries.
Third, transnational corporations are used
to make their own accounting.
Fourth, fund exchanges
requiring foreign and national companies
to provide financial reports in compliance with the International Standards Committee
are also used by regional organizations,
such as the European Commission,
which in 1995 announced
that it relies on the International Standards Committee
to prepare documents reflecting the needs of the capital market.
International standards are also used
by all economic entities,
such as large corporations, holdings,
that have foreign capital.
The International Standards Committee is the most important element
of modern corporate governance.
It is the basis for timely, objective information
for all interested users.
Why is it necessary and necessary to use the International Standards Committee?
The main reason is that the International Standards Committee,
even in its formation of accounting in compliance with the International Standards Committee,
allows companies to join the capital market.
Capital in the face of investors requires
the company to be open, transparent,
and accountable to investors.
If an investor is deprived of the opportunity
to monitor the use of capital invested in a company
with the help of financial accountability,
such a company will always remain
an area of increased risk for the investor
and, accordingly, will always lose
compared to other companies
in attracting financial resources from the capital market.
If a company does not have the accountability required,
then from the investor's point of view
it does not deserve trust
and cannot be competitively capable
on par with other capital seekers.
Financial accountability formed in compliance with the International Standards Committee
is distinguished by high informativeness and usefulness for the user.
The use of the International Standards Committee
allows to significantly reduce the time and resources
required to develop national standards.
Active use of the International Standards Committee
also creates the basis for increasing the prestige
and significance of the accounting profession.
The first question about the use of the International Standards Committee
in the composition of the Russian accounting
was posed in 1992.
Among the first companies to use the International Standards Committee
were AvtoVAZ, which prepared the report on the International Standards Committee
already in 1994,
Gazprom, which went on the London Stock Exchange already in 1996,
as well as large oil companies.
Similar processes were carried out in the banking sector,
where cooperation with any Western financial institution
was impossible without the report on the International Standards Committee.
The reform of accounting in Russia
was almost simultaneously related to the transition to market relations.
Theoretically, there are two main ways to implement the International Standards Committee.
The first is the method of shock therapy,
which is to give the status of the forces of the acts of national legislation to the international standards.
This is the way Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Estonia,
or the method of planned promotion,
where the development of national standards is carried out,
which is based on international standards of financial accounting,
borrowing significant parts of the principles
and changing existing national standards,
as well as transferring most of the principles of international standards to national standards.
Russia chose the most rational way of applying international financial reports.
This is their adaptation,
that is, gradually improving Russian rules of accounting and reporting.
This method of implementing international standards
corresponds to the approach of most European countries.
The order of the Russian Ministry of Finance
In 2004, the concept of developing accounting and accounting reporting in the Russian Federation
was approved for the medium-term, which covers the period up to 2010.
The goal of this concept is to activate the use of MSFO in the process of reforming national accounting.
At the same time, the concept does not provide for forcing the introduction of MSFO into national practice
and the complete replacement of the national accounting standards for international standards in the medium term.
The danger of such forcing is noted,
since any changes in accounting and reporting
that occur outside of the economic mechanism
can lead to a decrease in the quality of financial information,
discrediting international standards of financial accounting and weakening of the financial discipline.
Changes should occur gradually, taking into account the opportunities,
needs, and, most importantly, readiness of the professional community and state authorities,
which may take a significant amount of time to process new methods and information collection procedures.
Today, there are two legally significant documents
that establish the duty of certain economic entities to form accounting according to the principles of MSFO.
These are the instructions of the Central Bank on the composition and presentation of financial accounting to credit organizations.
These documents establish the duty of the credit organization to compose and present financial accounting according to international standards,
starting with accounting for 9 months in 2004,
in accordance with the methodological recommendations on the order of composing and providing financial accounting to credit organizations.
The second document is the order of the Federal Service on Finance and Markets
on the approval of the position of activity on the organization of trading on the market of securities.
This document, as one of the mandatory conditions for entering the A-1 level of the credit rating list,
establishes the duty of the emissary to have a financial report,
a financial report, either in accordance with MSFO or in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Service on Finance and Markets,
as well as the obligation to the emissary to disclose the report, along with the audit report, in Russian.
By the beginning of the 21st century, more than 40 standards were approved by the Committee on International Standards of Financial Accounting.
Some of them were adopted during the existence of 2-3 editorial offices,
and some of them were so modified that they even had to change their names.
The oldest of them is in the editorial office of 1992.
It is necessary to remember that MSFO is a constantly updated,
live system of regulatory regulation of accounting worldwide.
At present, more than 40,000 transnational corporations,
which have more than 200,000 subsidiary and dependent companies around the world,
are voluntarily making financial reports in full accordance with MSFO.
The European Commission has stated that it considers international standards as a suitable basis for harmonization of financial reporting within the EU.
International Standards of Financial Reporting are developed and adopted by the Committee on International Standards of Financial Reporting,
which unites 105 countries, which includes 143 members and more than 2 million accountants and auditors.
The Committee on International Standards of Financial Reporting has copyrights on international standards, preliminary projects and other publications of the Committee.
The published text of the Committee's reports is considered to be in English.
There are official translations into Spanish, German, Polish and Russian.
They are officially translated into more than 30 languages.
The Committee's income consists of sales of publications, as well as financial support for professional associations, which are members of it, other companies and organizations.
The Committee's work order in international standards of financial reporting is determined by the government appointed by the International Accounting Federation.
The Committee includes up to four representatives from international organizations interested in financial reporting.
Each member of the Committee can appoint two representatives and one advisor to participate in the meetings.
The Government approves the new standards and their specified editorial offices.
Representatives of the Government, organizations included in the International Accounting Federation and other legal and physical persons interested can send proposals on new topics that deserve attention.
In 1981, the Government approved the International Consultative Group, which included representatives of international organizations, members and users of financial reporting, fund exchanges, and organizations regulating the circulation of securities.
At the meetings of the Consultative Group, which is held regularly, technical issues of projects developed by the Committee on International Standards, as well as its strategy and work programs, are considered.
In 1995, the Consultative Council was approved. It is a group of outstanding figures in the accounting profession and business.
The Consultative Council conducts an expertise on the strategies and plans of the Government, contributes to the work of professional accountants, users of financial reporting,
assures trust in the Committee's activities on international standards, compiles an annual report on the effectiveness of the Government's work, checks the Budget and Committee's financial reporting.
To develop each specific standard, the Government approves the Preparatory Committee, headed by one of the Government's members, representatives of at least three countries and other organizations.
The Preparatory Committee studies accounting practices at the national and regional levels, determines the circle of controversial issues on the topic, receives and analyzes the comments.
After the discussion and approval, the Government develops and presents a preliminary project, which is published for the comments of all interested users.
Based on the analysis and generalization of the comments, a standard project is being prepared, which is approved for publication with the support of three quarters of the Committee members.
In 1997, the Interpretation Committee was formed. It was created to consider controversial issues of accounting,
and to consider independent decisions that would lead to unacceptable accounting practices and to withdrawals from international standards.
The Interpretation Committee constantly considers mature issues that do not meet satisfactory standards. The Committee is constantly reorganized on international standards.
The Committee's proposals for a new structure were prepared by the Working Group on Strategy for several years. According to the Group's recommendations, the MSFO Act was amended.
It was transformed into an independent organization managed by trusted persons.
The Committee's governance is exclusively responsible for the development of accounting standards.
The governance of the Committee on International Standards is formed on a professional basis, according to the relevant qualifications.
At least five members of the Board should have experience of working as auditors. At least three members of the Finance Committee should be Finance Committee users. One member of the Board should have experience of teaching.
The Consultative Council on Standards is formed on a regional basis, taking into account professional experience for consulting the Board members and trusted persons.
The Committee has been in this reorganized form since 2001 and consists of four units.
The Committee's task for international standards of financial accounting is to develop a single set of standards, to distribute them widely and to provide them with a uniform interpretation.
The Convergence of National and International Standards is also being developed. The update of the document's position is a common practice of the Committee on MSFO.
The Committee's new edition does not only dictate the harmonization or convergence of accounting policy of the professional community of accountants.
The International Standards of Financial Accounting is a system of conceptual documents that establish the principles, components and ideas of financial accounting, but not the order of accounting.
They do not contain the usual accounting plan for Russian financial workers, typical accounting procedures, the form of primary accounting documents, accounting registers.
The International Standards of Financial Accounting consist of conceptual foundations for the preparation and presentation of financial accounting.
The International Standards of Financial Accounting are the principles, conceptual foundations for the preparation and presentation of financial accounting.
The principles are the foundation on which standards are created. The purpose of this document is to provide assistance to the Committee on International Standards of Financial Accounting.
Secondly, it is to promote the harmonization and convergence of financial accounting. It is to provide assistance to the national bodies establishing standards, to the financial accounting components, to the auditors and users.
The principles are to clarify the goals of financial accounting, its quality characteristics, elements, i.e., determination, recognition, assessment of financial accounting.
The principles can be used by any commercial company in the private and public sector.
The International Standards of Financial Accounting are the principles, conceptual foundations for the preparation and presentation of financial accounting.
Seven new standards have been developed and approved, including IFRS 1, IFRS 2, IFRS 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, with a new name.
Significant adjustments have also been made to the interpretations issued to the individual standards. Many of them have been included as a component in the corrected or new standards.
At the beginning of the 21st century, the Committee was working on new standards for the mining industry, insurance, discounting, and the pension plan assets.
The Committee is supposed to make changes to the standards for the disclosure of information by banks and similar financial institutions, to the composition of financial accounting, to the unification of companies, to the accounting of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Committee is supposed to work on the possibility of using the Internet to present financial accounting information to investors and other users.
What is continuity of activity? It means that an organization, once created, continues its work indefinitely. It is clear that no living organism can exist indefinitely, so it is called permissibility.
It is necessary to make an accounting financial accounting based on this permissibility. It is necessary to assess the ability of a company to continue its activity in the near future.
It is also necessary to reveal the facts of significant uncertainty that may affect the continuity of the organization's activities.
The concept of the convergence of received income and spent expenses is a recognition of assets, obligations, income and expenses at the time of their occurrence, not payment.
One of the quality characteristics of financial accounting is its clarity.
It does not mean that clarity should be clear to the first-time user. It is assumed that a financial accounting user should have sufficient knowledge in the field of business and commercial activity, a desire to study information with due diligence.
It does not mean that the complicated information that should be included in financial accounting, due to its compatibility with the decision-making process, should be excluded, only because it may be too difficult for certain users to understand.
The next quality characteristic of financial accounting is its compatibility.
Different periods within a company should be comparable. The financial accountability of various companies should be comparable.
A consistent approach to the assessment and reflection of the financial result should be provided. Information on accounting policies and changes in accounting policies should be presented.
The compatibility of information is the balance between its temporality and reliability.
The later the period of information, the more reliable the information is, that is, it is free of many errors.
Therefore, the balance between temporality and reliability should be observed, because no one needs old, outdated information.
Users want to receive information on time. The costs of providing information should not exceed the benefits of the information provided.
The information should be presented only in significant sections. Information is considered significant if its absence or incorrect assessment may affect the decision of the user based on the data of the financial account.
The significance depends on the size, the threshold or the point of the account. The information should be reliable, that is, free of significant errors.
A reliable presentation of the account means compliance with all the criteria of recognition. This is a priority of the content before the form.
We represent the economic essence of the event, not its legal form. The information should be neutral, that is, not in anyone's interests.
The principle of review should be observed. In the event of uncertainty, the income and assets should not be increased, the expenses and obligations should not be reduced.
The information should be presented in all its entirety, that is, in all significant sections, without any omissions. The connection between significance and costs of benefits should be ensured.
A reliable presentation of the financial account is the correct application of international standards. This is a choice of relevant accounting policies.
An inappropriate approach cannot be compensated for by the disclosure of the financial account or its application.
The information should be presented in accordance with the quality characteristics of the financial account. Additional disclosure of information should be provided if the information is not enough to understand.
The principles of the financial account also give the concept of the main elements of financial accountability. What are assets, obligations, and the concept of capital?
Assets are the resources of a controlled company that arose as a result of past periods and from which economic benefits are expected in the future.
What can it be? It is the main resources, non-material assets, reserves, ready-made products, goods, money.
Control is the unlimited access and at the same time the ability to prohibit access to other people's rights to future economic benefits.
Property is not a necessary obligation. It is a current debt formed as a result of past periods and from which the outflow of resources containing economic benefits is expected in the future.
What are the obligations? We have taken a loan. We have employees. We have to pay them a salary at the end of the month. At the end of the month, it is an obligation.
Employees earn their right to vacation during the working period. Therefore, we have to create a reserve for the payment of vacation payments. We have received a commodity, but we have not paid for it.
Capital is given as a balancing factor in international standards. It is the difference between assets and obligations. It is the remaining share in the company's assets after all obligations are paid.
Sometimes it is called pure assets. It is not only the established capital. It can be both established capital, that is, the capital with the owner, and the capital that the company has already earned.
It is part of the unallocated profit that comes here, what is left of the company. It is reserve capital. It is additional capital that comes here. International financial reporting standards use different assessment bases.
These are the initial costs, the current costs, the realized costs, the allocated costs, the potential obligations, and the fair costs.
As we have already said, the financial reporting system is a living organism, the general direction of which is from historical value to fair value.
Fair value is the value at which assets can be exchanged, and obligations can be paid off as a result of a deal between the informed, independent, and those who wish to make this deal.
This assessment is widely presented in the standards themselves. In the financial reporting system, income and expenses are included. Income is the return on the profit in the reporting period in the form of asset inflow or obligation reduction, which leads to capital increase, not related to the share of shareholders.
When income appears, we provide a service, we sell a product, a finished product, we get income, we have to pay it.
Expenses are the reduction of economic benefits in the form of asset inflow or obligation reduction, which leads to capital decrease, not related to the share of shareholders.
In the production process, we use raw materials, we use labor, we have to pay it, we use machines, equipment, that is, basic means.
All this leads to a reduction of economic benefits. These are the expenses of the enterprise.
Since the financial reporting is about assets and obligations, not about property, there is a process of recognition.
The process of recognition is the process of including in the report an object or article that corresponds to the definition of this element and meets the recognition criteria.
The process is the description in words, reflection in the monetary amount, including in the accounting report or accounting report.
The recognition criteria are the probability of receiving or losing economic benefits. The cost can be reliably measured.
In 2003, the IFRS-1 standard was adopted, the first application of the IMF, which clarifies and specifies the basic principles of the first application.
The purpose of this standard is to ensure that the first set of financial reports prepared in accordance with the IMF contained high-quality information
First, transparent in the eyes of users. Second, comparable for all periods in which it was presented. Third, it would be the starting point for the transition to the IMF.
Fourth, the expenses for preparation of which would not exceed the value of the IMF for users.
The IMF would be prepared to make a clear and unconditional statement on its compliance with all international standards of financial reporting.
According to this standard, companies must determine which reporting will be the first, prepare an introductory balance on the IMF on the date of transition to these standards,
choose an accounting policy that meets the international standards of financial reporting, and apply it in retrospect to all periods provided in the first financial report on the IMF.
Make a decision on the use of any of the six possible voluntary exceptions that exempt it from retrospective application.
Apply three mandatory exceptions when the retrospective application of standards is not allowed. Disclose the financial reporting in detail, the information explaining the peculiarities of the transition to the IMF.
Pay attention to this slide. The definition of the reporting date is also given here, and the date of transition. The reporting date is December 31, 2007. The date of transition, the date of the introductory balance, will be January 1, 2006.
The main thing is that the organization must apply all the standards that have come into force on the date of the first financial report on the IMF, their retrospective application.
The preparation of the introductory balance on the IMF provides for recognizing all the assets and obligations that the IMF requires, not recognizing assets and obligations that are not allowed by the standards, reclassify the reporting articles from the regional rules in the IMF,
apply the IMF when evaluating all recognized assets and obligations. What does it mean to recognize all assets and obligations, recognition of which is required by international standards of financial reporting?
For many companies, this means that they will have to recognize additional assets and obligations. For example, pension plans with established payments, tax and assets and financial leases,
reserves on obligations, production and financial instruments, acquired non-material assets. What does it mean not to recognize assets and obligations, recognition of which is not allowed by international standards?
Companies will have to stop recognizing certain assets and obligations that they recognized in accordance with the national rules used in advance. For example, reserves in the absence of legal or out-of-practice obligations.
For example, reserves for the repair of basic means. This is not an obligation and it is not recognized. Internal non-material assets are also not recognized in accordance with the IMF.
Delayed tax requirements when repayment is not likely, future period expenses, individual assets and obligations must be reclassified. Investments must be made in accordance with the IMF-39.
Some financial instruments that were previously classified as capital, for example, regulated shares that are subject to compulsory purchase, the IMF considers as a duty.
All assets and obligations in relation to which a balance was made, not taking into account the requirements for the balance provided by international standards, for example, the balance of insurance repayment.
Debitors must be corrected. Obligations on the reward of workers in accordance with the IMF-19, the reward of workers. Delayed taxes in accordance with the IMF-12. Financial instruments in accordance with the IMF-39. Financial instruments, recognition and assessment.
Reserves in accordance with the IMF-37. Assessments, conditional obligations, conditional assets. Devaluation of basic means, non-material assets in accordance with the IMF-36. Devaluation of assets.
All adjustments to the accounting policy before the IMF is used are recognized as either unallocated profits or capital on the date of the transition to international financial standards.
One of the stages of the transition to the IMF is the development of accounting policy, which is made in accordance with the requirements of international standards.
Accounting policy is a concrete principle, basis, condition, rule and practice adopted by the company for the preparation and presentation of financial reporting.
Accounting policy must be selected and applied in such a way that the financial reporting meets all the requirements of each of the applied standards.
Organizations try to bring the accounting policy of the PERS-CSU and the IMF to the IMF as close as possible.
This reduces the number of adjustments to the IMF, reduces labor capacity and training time, and improves the quality of reporting.
Organizations can make reporting in accordance with international standards by the following two main methods.
This is either the transformation of the data of the Russian accounting in accordance with the IMF, as banks and most Russian organizations do, or the parallel implementation of accounting policy according to Russian international standards.
The parallel accounting is carried out by Lukoil, Rusal, Knauf and other companies.
Transformation is the translation of the Russian financial reporting into international one by adjusting certain indicators.
The methods of obtaining this information differ according to Russian standards from those of international standards.
The method is based on the approach in which the information is formed according to Russian standards, analyzed and corrected to bring it to the international standards.
This method is widely used in Europe and other countries, as national standards apply to individual reporting in the vast majority of countries, and the IMF standards apply to consolidated reporting.
The question is, what is more profitable for an enterprise to carry out parallel accounting or transformation, and who will be engaged in the composition of reporting in the IMF format.
The enterprise decides whether the team, the auditing consulting firm or its own employees are invited.
At present, many large firms can already transform accounting with their own efforts. They have accumulated solid experience, prepared highly qualified personnel, and finally, there are special sections that are engaged in the transformation of accounting data.
Such companies carry out accounting transformation at a fairly high level.
These are banks, for example, TransAero, Irkutsk Energo, Sveza Group, and so on.
The main external argument in favor of the transition to the composition of accounting based on international standards is that such a transition becomes an important step to ensure the openness and transparency of Russian companies.
Their competitiveness is also increasing, including in the fight for the capital market. The cost of their borrowed funds is decreasing, as well as the overall improvement of the financial market in Russia.
The use of internationally recognized principles of accounting disciplines companies that make up and represent accounting, as the transition to international standards implies the formation of accounting forms that apply all standards in general.
Accounting that meets international standards allows for a more objective assessment not only of the financial state of the company, but also of the efficiency of the company's management system as a whole and of its business segments. This is necessary not only for external users, but also for the company's management.
As we have already said, the main criteria for accounting systems are principles, not rules, because it is impossible to establish rules for all cases that arise in business practice.
The MCFO plays a special role in the principle. For a Western accountant, it is a kind of a canon.
The standard T allows for the decision-making of a professional judgment of an accountant. The standard T determines the list of financial reporting articles, the level of significance, and the compatibility of information for the user.
The standard T provides that when solving a significant number of issues that arise in the process of accounting preparation, one should focus on the professional judgment of the accountant.
A certain break in the accounting preparation process is required by the company's management and external accounting users, who are used to the fact that each stage of accounting, starting with the primary document and ending with the preparation of accounting forms, is regulated by the standards.
Transformation consists in clarifying the differences in accounting and reporting by the MCFO and the MCFO, and in removing the corresponding differences by the usual method of traditional accounting, the method of double-recording for the purpose of obtaining data suitable for compiling reports in accordance with international standards.
Therefore, to qualitatively identify the differences from the MCFO, knowledge of both national accounting standards and the practice of applying national standards within a specific company is required.
The knowledge of international standards in relation to the reflections of operations typical for a given company is required. The performer of the transformation must also have analytical skills and a mathematical view of eliminating differences in these two types of accounting.
The excellent transformers of financial accounting are auditors who know the MCFO and MCFO and have education in higher mathematics.
To carry out the transformation in Excel or other software products, the skills of working with the appropriate software at the level of an advanced user, and sometimes a programmer, are required.
The method of transformation is less expensive than parallel accounting and can be carried out in a month and a half after obtaining the annual Russian report.
Upon completion of the transformation process, the enterprise receives detailed structured information on the specifics of the activity, both in Russian and in international standards, and has a great awareness of its financial accounting based on this data.
The transformation of accounting in the format of international standards requires the interest of the company management, which should be involved in the transformation process of all company managers.
The information required by some managers is important for the implementation of the transformation, and the help of others in the justification of some calculations is important for all managers to understand the benefits for the enterprise from obtaining financial accounting according to the standards of the MCFO.
Parallel accounting is usually considered as the next step after obtaining the report on the method of transformation.
Here, all the main differences between Russian and international standards should be included in a separate account and reflected in the MCFO and RSCB database in parallel.
Parallel accounting is determined by the need to enter information into a computer system, which will later automatically carry out this operation in both the RSCB database and the international financial accounting database.
The cost of such systems usually ranges from $25,000 to $1 million.
It is also necessary to plan the costs for the configuration of such systems for a particular enterprise, which can account for about half of the cost of the system itself.
Among the most common systems in Russia, we can highlight SAP R3, Microsoft Naivision, Microsoft Accepta, Oracle, Scala, 1S version 8, and others.
The transition to accounting based on international financial accounting standards is a very expensive process, not only for individual enterprises.
The cost of paying for the services of third-party consultants, retraining of personnel, hiring new personnel, obtaining and filing of appropriate software,
the reconstruction of internal documents of circulation and control, mandatory audit of accounting based on international standards, and supervision of state bodies,
is a very expensive process.
What are the types of accounting?
International standards of financial accounting, the quality characteristics of international standards of financial accounting, who develops these standards, how are they applied?
We have considered the ways of transitioning companies to providing accounting based on international standards.
I hope that the knowledge you have gained will be useful for your future work. I wish you success.